subject: Khumbulani's progress report
first week
1. done touch typing using tux typing application
objective:to gain a skill in touch typing
action: i used an application called tux typing to aid me
description:tuxtyping is free open source typing tutor created especially for children. it features several types of game play, at a variety of difficulty levels. it is designed to be or improve words per minute speed of typing.
alternative: Typing club is the most effective way to learn how to type. it is web based, and highly effective. TypingClub is (and will always be) free for both individual and schools. There is an optional paid school edition.
results:Though i am still new and slow in touch typing but i now can type without having to search for keys on keyboard.
reference: 
2. learnt vim nuts and bolts through vim adventures
objective:to write script in vim using touch typing skills.
action: i used vim touch type by opening vim in ubuntu linux terminal and using vim knowledge such as how to navigate in vim using h,j,kand l respectively using command mode. vim has three modes such as command mode, insert mode and last line mode. to enter into command mode press 'esc'key on the keyboard. to enter insert mode press 'a' or 'i' and start typing. to enter last-line mode press or enter :(colon).
command mode help you run linux commands in the script. in this mode vim operates like a terminal.insert mode help you write your code as in a normal editor.you can use all keyboard keys as in a normal editor.
descriotion: vim is a highly configurable text editor, it is an improved version of vi editor distributed with most UNIX systems. vimis perfect for all kinds of editing, from composing email to editing configuration files.
results: i mastered how to move from mode to mode in vim and to insert text in these different modes 
 
3. wrote a code of conducts scripts using vim 
objective:to practise touch typing and using vim 
action: typing out the code of conduct. i tried to write the words without looking at the keyboard
description:your pointing finger on your left hand must rest on your f key and the pointing of your right hand must rest on the j key. the aim is to keep these keys as the guiding line.

result: though my typing speed has diminished because I am not used to typing this way, but I feel more confident that I can type wit
hout havingt to look at the keyboard.

references:

   
4. learnt some qgis desktop basics
objective:to learn some qgis and to actually understand what qgis is all about.
action: installing, exploring and qgis. it is very helpful to first understand what qgis is.

description: qgis stands for quantum geographical information systems. the qgis is an application   
second week

1. began learning python and python python scripting
objective: to learn python and python scripting
action: studied tutorials on python from google, watched videos on youtube and downloaded and inst.alled python ide.
description: python is a widely, high-level, general-purpose, intepreted, dynamic programming language. Its design philosophy emphasizes code readability, and its syntax allows programmers to ezpress conceptds in fewer lines of code than would ve possible in languages such as c++ or java
2. signed up with github and gitter
objective: to be able to communicate with the staff within the organization and to see the projects that are being dealt with.
action: I ask for help from Tim, my boss, to actually register me in the groups(gitter and github).
description: Github is a web-based Git repository hosting service. It offers all of the distributed revision control and sourcecode management(SCM) functionality of Git as well as adding its own features.
Gitter is an instant messaging and chat room system for developers and users of GitHub repositories.Gitter is provided as software-as-a-service, with a free option providing all basic features and the ability to create a single private chat room, and paid subscription options for individuals and organisations, which allows them to create arbitrary numbres of private chat rooms. 
3. started chatting on gitter and exploring projects on github
4. learnt markdown language from daring fireball website (https:daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax#backslash)

5. introduced myself to pyqt

6. installed rj45 connector on a cat5 ethernet network patch cable
objective:to gain a skill and know 

third week
1. made a project on scratch, shared it on scratch.mit.edu. check it on https:scratch.mit.edu/projects/106500937/

2. practised touch typing the rest of the day 
 
fourth week
what I did:
1. I practised typing on TypingClub website
aim/objective: to improve and to increase my typing speed 
action: typed words without looking at my hands or the keyboard
results: *I can type without looking at the keyboard and my fingers,
         *my typing speed has improved
references: www.typingclub.com
2.Created a game in Scratch
aim/objective: to build an understanding of problem solving in programming.
  
