routing

Related Terms

    router
    routing protocol
    static routing
    routing switch
    routing metric
    VRF - virtual routing and forwarding
    Routing Information Protocol
    Interior Gateway Routing Protocol
    hybrid routing protocol
    modem



By Vangie Beal

Routing:

(n.) In internetworking, the process of moving a packet of data from source to destination. Routing is usually performed by a dedicated device called a router. Routing is a key feature of the Internet because it enables messages to pass from one computer to another and eventually reach the target machine. Each intermediary computer performs routing by passing along the message to the next computer. Part of this process involves analyzing a routing table to determine the best path.

Routing is often confused with bridging, which performs a similar function. The principal difference between the two is that bridging occurs at a lower level and is therefore more of a hardware function whereas routing occurs at a higher level where the software component is more important. And because routing occurs at a higher level, it can perform more complex analysis to determine the optimal path for the packet.


What is a Network Switch vs. a Router?

What is a network switch and what is a router? The two pieces of equipment look similar and perform some similar functions, but each has its own distinct function to perform on a network.
What is a Network Switch?

To understand basic networking, you first need to answer the question, "What is a network switch?"

Most business networks today use switches to connect computers, printers and servers within a building or campus. A switch serves as a controller, enabling networked devices to talk to each other efficiently. Through information sharing and resource allocation, switches save businesses money and increase employee productivity.

Understand the different types of Ethernet switches and their capabilities.
What is a Network Switch: Unmanaged Switches

An unmanaged switch works right out of the box. It's not designed to be configured, so you don't have to worry about installing or setting it up correctly. Unmanaged switches have less network capacity than managed switches. You'll usually find unmanaged switches in home networking equipment.
What is a Network Switch: Managed Switches

A managed network switch is configurable, offering greater flexibility and capacity than an unmanaged switch. You can monitor and adjust a managed switch locally or remotely, to give you greater network control.
What is a Network Switch versus a Router?

Switches create a network. Routers connect networks. A router links computers to the Internet, so users can share the connection. A router acts as a dispatcher, choosing the best path for information to travel so it's received quickly.
What is a Network Switch to My Business?

Switches and routers are the building blocks for all business communications, from data to voice and video to wireless access. They can improve profitability by enabling your company to increase productivity, trim business expenses, and improve security and customer service.

Find out about Cisco Small Business Switches and Routers, for small and medium-sized businesses.

References: 
http://www.cisco.com/cisco/web/solutions/small_business/resource_center/articles/connect_employees_and_offices/what_is_a_network_switch/

What Is Routing and Remote Access?

Applies To: Windows Server 2008
Routing

A router is a device that manages the flow of data between network segments, or subnets. A router directs incoming and outgoing packets based on the information it holds about the state of its own network interfaces and a list of possible sources and destinations for network traffic. By projecting network traffic and routing needs based on the number and types of hardware devices and applications used in your environment, you can better decide whether to use a dedicated hardware router, a software-based router, or a combination of both. Generally, dedicated hardware routers handle heavier routing demands best, and less expensive software-based routers are sufficient to handle lighter routing loads.

A software-based routing solution, such as the Routing and Remote Access service in Windows Server® 2008, can be ideal on a small, segmented network with relatively light traffic between subnets. Conversely, enterprise network environments that have a large number of network segments and a wide range of performance requirements might need a variety of hardware-based routers to perform different roles throughout the network.
Remote access

By configuring Routing and Remote Access to act as a remote access server, you can connect remote or mobile workers to your organization's networks. Remote users can work as if their computers are physically connected to the network.

All services typically available to a LAN-connected user (including file and print sharing, Web server access, and messaging) are enabled by means of the remote access connection. For example, on a server running Routing and Remote Access, clients can use Windows Explorer to make drive connections and to connect to printers. Because drive letters and universal naming convention (UNC) names are fully supported by remote access, most commercial and custom applications work without modification.

A server running Routing and Remote Access provides two different types of remote access connectivity:

    Virtual private networking (VPN)

    VPN is the creation of secured, point-to-point connections across a private network or a public network such as the Internet. A VPN client uses special TCP/IP-based protocols called tunneling protocols to make a virtual call to a virtual port on a VPN server. The best example of virtual private networking is that of a VPN client that makes a VPN connection to a remote access server that is connected to the Internet. The remote access server answers the virtual call, authenticates the caller, and transfers data between the VPN client and the corporate network.

    In contrast to dial-up networking, VPN is always a logical, indirect connection between the VPN client and the VPN server over a public network, such as the Internet. To ensure privacy, you must encrypt data sent over the connection.

    For more information, see What Is VPN?.

    Dial-up networking

    In dial-up networking, a remote access client makes a nonpermanent, dial-up connection to a physical port on a remote access server by using the service of a telecommunications provider, such as analog phone or ISDN. The best example of dial-up networking is that of a dial-up networking client that dials the phone number of one of the ports of a remote access server.

    Dial-up networking over an analog phone or ISDN is a direct physical connection between the dial-up networking client and the dial-up networking server. You can encrypt data sent over the connection, but it is not required.

    For more information, see What Is Dial-Up Networking?.

References:

https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc771052%28v=ws.10%29.aspx

Subnetting:

Definition: A subnet is a logical grouping of connected network devices. Nodes on a subnet tend to be located in close physical proximity to each other on a LAN.

Network designers employ subnets as a way to partition networks into logical segments for greater ease of administration. When subnets are properly implemented, both the performance and security of networks can be improved.

In Internet Protocol (IP) networking, devices on a subnet share contiguous ranges of IP address numbers.

A mask (known as the subnet mask or network mask) defines the boundaries of an IP subnet. The correspondence between subnet masks and IP address ranges follows defined mathematical formulas. IT professionals use subnet calculators to map between masks and addresses.

